## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, September 12, 2016, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Amanda Lehman
* Notetaker: Jennifer Eustis

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m2c31587beca52005bdf3c0a3b4607a50
* Audio via Telephone: 1-415-655-0002, code: 649 380 345

---

#### Agenda Items:
* Welcome and introductions
* Announcements
* Proposal: Creation of a CLAW Metadata Roadmap document like the one for the [IR IG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pFpL1PK1Tk3FSini2nZeDajw8PyXnh-2xBNOnM6fbvM/edit#heading=h.7b8dhj7bz1cp)
* The discussion will be led by Matthew Miguez who will explain some work-arounds for batch metadata editing without access to Fedora.
* Subgroups updates
* Volunteers for next month
* Round table

#### Notes:
* Announcements: The code freeze was just [announced](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/tBhO48NSwr0). If you'd like to participate, there's still time. The Islandora [Document IG](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/islandora-docs) is always looking for volunteers. 
* Proposal: Creation of a CLAW Metadata Roadmap document like the one for the [IR IG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pFpL1PK1Tk3FSini2nZeDajw8PyXnh-2xBNOnM6fbvM/edit#heading=h.7b8dhj7bz1cp). Jennifer will create a similar document for the MIG and post an announcement on the Islandora Google Group.
* Matthew explained that his repository is hosted by the Florida Academic Library Services Cooperative or FALSC. This is a multi-use site with varying access levels. For metadata, there is always a challenge to find which tools work best as Matthew doesn't have direct access to Fedora and must find workarounds. He works with Drupal API and OAI-PMH primarily using Python or xslt to ask questions or do some editing. [Metadata analysis at the command-line](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/7818) by Mark Phillips' is a great introduction to this work and includes links to Mark's work such as pyoaiharvest which can be found on his [GitHub](https://github.com/vphill/). Matthew bundled Mark's work in a plow.sh shell script that bundles metadata and creates some visualizations with the data. Examples include growth at the root level or the number of access points. pyoaiharvester.py downloads records by set or collection. pullRecords.py downloads records from list of PIDs that Matthew wrote. This takes a text file full of PIDs to go out to Drupal API and download all the MODS xml files to a folder location. To do the MODS editing, Matthew wrote addFragmant.py to add a physical location element located with each record. This will put anything of the fragment into the MODS. This works on individual files or will work in a loop on multiple files. Matthew also built the csv4.py that pulls metadata to produce CSV files with information needed for others. The quality reconcilation workflow which starts off with reports from Solr, then a student will put in the PIDs of records that needs updating in a text file. The problem is getting stuff back into Islandora. Drupal doesn't allow POST request. There is no simple way to re-upload edited MODS except to manually edit these records. Matthew is now building a MODS specific library for python, called pymods. He's also looked at automating LC linked data look-ups. M. Short worked with dime novels and wrote a script to query LC APIs directly for linked data and then update those records directly in Fedora. Matthew's work can be found on his [GitHub](https://github.com/mrmiguez). View his [presentation](http://www.slideshare.net/MatthewMiguez/islandora-from-the-outside).

Question: The student does the modifications through the Islandora XML form. One of the problems is that there's so much stuff that has been done according to different standards and practices. Getting a handle on all of this is half the challenge. 

Question: How did you get the python and scripting skills? The programming skills were developed at work.

Question: Have you ever had to learn and then relearn any of your skills? The programming skills take a different kind of thought. It's an explicit step by step way. 

Question: There's new functionality that DGI did with Baseball such as reporting. DGI will showcase this later on. There's a possibility that some of this new functionality will be shared with Islandora core.

Question: Do you use open refine for all types of records? The group noticed that Open refine is good for an already ready spreadsheet of new records. For old records, Open refine is not that friendly. It would be great if people share any workflows they have that include Open Refine.

* Subgroups updates: The Metadata Tools subgroup is still looking for [use cases](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Metadata-Tools-Subgroup). This group is also preparing a suvey to gather information on what tools are being used and who uses them.
* Volunteers for next month: Next month, our meeting falls on Columbus Day. We'll take a break and reconvene in November.
* Round table
