## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, January 11, 2016, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notetaker:  Christina

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Announcements on how to join are posted on the Islandora Google Group list

---

#### Agenda Items:
* Authorities Subgroup report

---

#### Notes:

- For new to the Islandora MIG Call participants, an introduction to the Islandora MIG Wiki and Working Groups (https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki)
- Authorities Working Group
    - Announcement of the authorities group meeting doodle poll
    - Look on Islandora Google Groups list
- Documentation Interest Group (not under MIG any longer)
    - call for participants in documentation group (https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Documentation-Interest-Group)
- Hydra compatibility subgroup: 
    - If you want to be involved, post your name on the wiki.
    - https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Islandora---Hydra-Compatibility-Subgroup
- Loose discussion of how this group is going:
    - Call Participant Questions:
        - where are deliverables? 
        - confusion on where/what to join
            - Explanation: this group came together with similar model to Hydra group
                - last Fall/Winter meetings: overlap with Hydra explored
                - Subgroups work, which stalled for bit, is being taken up now
            - this group (MIG) is for general discussion, issues in other work. It is for sharing + larger discussions around metadata + Islandora.
            - subgroups are working on deliverables, discrete problems with timeframes and completion goals.
        - Mention of possible topics for this group:
            - issues brought to different individuals re:metadata in Islandora
            - what’s going on in the community about metadata management
            - updates on Islandora codebase and tools, extensions (like with xml forms maintaining status)
            - discussions on tools generally
            - request for folks in other metadata groups to report here
                - also report back on larger islandora, hydra groups
                - show and tell opportunities
        - queue some people to talk to the MIG?
            - Donald (?) on Islandora metadata, XML forms
            - schedule first 2 or 3 discussions
                - XML forms
                - Fedora Book Club report
            - then see how it proceeds
            - Not scheduling too far out is good, so can be agile
            - also getting questions answered
        - Next meeting:
            - some reports (including Amanda’s Fedora SemWeb Book club report)
            - some questions generally
            - reports from subgroups
            - Erin sharing about OCR book solution pack update
            - Jennifer about Islandora views work by diego
            - islandora solr views, see unit of toronto (example is gallery of cats). helps with images timing out.
