## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, May 9, 2016, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notetaker:  Amanda Lehman

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m2c31587beca52005bdf3c0a3b4607a50
* Audio via Telephone: 1-415-655-0002, code: 649 380 345

---

#### Agenda Items:
* Welcome and introductions
* Announcements  
There are 2 new modules out:  
   [Find and Replace](https://github.com/contentmath/islandora_find_replace)  
   [Metadata Analyzer](https://github.com/jyobb/islandora_metadata_analyzer)  
   Next Month, the creator of the Metadata Analyzer will join us to lead the dicussion on how to clean and enhance metadata the reasons behind the metadata analyzer.

* The discussion will be led by Martha Tenney on customizing the manuscript solution pack 
* We will hear any updates from subgroups.
* Volunteers for next month

#### Notes:
* In attendance:
    * Jennifer Eustis
    * Amanda Lehman
    * Martha Tenney
    * Erin Tripp
    * Joseph N.
    * Trudy Spooner
    * Jessica
    * Annie Glerum
* Martha's Manuscript discussion
    * Background: digitalcollections.barnard.edu
    * Born digital and digitized content: Newspaper, book, pdf, image solution packs.
    * Wide definition of "Manuscripts" - letters, ephemera, etc.
        * Parent Manuscript (Full MODS, concatenated transcript/ocr) with child/page objects (truncated MODS - for faceting/search results, page-level OCR), display and metadata just don't match up with current solution packs. 
        * Adapting Manuscript solution pack to fit their needs, highly customized (test mode). 
    * Other examples: http://phmf.saas.dgicloud.com/islandora/object/islandora%3A1478?islandora_paged_content_page=2
    * More info and call for Other Use Cases - contact Martha and in https://github.com/barnardarchives 
* Authorities Subgroup
    * Working on usecases - searching for input - send to Jennifer or post in github: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Authorities-Subgroup
* Things to check out
   * Check out Annie's upcoming presentation: http://www.ala.org/alcts/events/ac/2016/vc
   * Erin suggests a good OAIS PASIG presentation https://stanford.app.box.com/s/p4991s79rvaf2rtau8n4f4jfo62duh96 
   * Post in google groups. 
* TODO
    * Feature Request for checkbox on compound solution pack - metadata display from parent object or children. 
    * Contact for future discussion of other examples of Manuscript Solution Pack in action.
