## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, Nov. 9, 2015, 1-2pm EST
### 
---
* Chair: Jennifer Eustis
* Notetaker:  Christina M. Harlow

---

#### How to Join the Meeting  
* Meeting URL: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=m2c31587beca52005bdf3c0a3b4607a50  
* Audio via Telephone: 1-415-655-0002, code: 649 380 345

---

#### Agenda Items:  
* Subgroup Reports
* Collaboration with Hydra Metadata Interest Group (Juliet Hardesty)
* Use case users stories
* Using "Issues" to list issues that we would like to change in Islandora  
* Discussion: Mods to DC xsl (https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/5yO9NkEBpI0)
* Discussion: Replacing the MODS and the changes don't take effect unless you open the form and update (https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/EX2CBR9fBDY)
* Discussion: Helping with Documentation for releases (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PRv2Xo-sNE_sDJHUT5OvTXmNiSHnkdJgwo7VsFkIUgY/edit#gid=1041823630)
* Discussion: Clearing the Batch Queue (https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/islandora/batch$20queue$20sets/islandora/wPnVZyCpwzE/LvQwn6BoAwAJ)

---

#### Meeting Notes:

Present:

* Kevin Clair, University of Denver
* Robin Dean
* Jennifer Eustis, UConn
* Jordan Fields, Marmot Library Network
* Julie Hardesty, Indiana University, Hydra Metadata Interest Group Facilitator
* Christina Harlow, UT Knoxville
* Amanda Lehman, University of Wyoming
* Joseph Nicholson, UNC Charlotte
* Heather ?

Standing meeting: 2nd Monday of each month
Meeting times and agenda are announced on Islandora + Hydra + Fedora Communities Google Group lists

**Subgroup Reports:**
- Not a lot of movement, recommendation to review later in call for collaboration opportunities/merging
- Folks are invted to review the existing subgroups + step up if you’re interested in taking a leadership role

**Collaboration with Hydra Metadata Interest Group (with guest Juliet Hardesty)**
- Jennifer + Christina were on Hydra MIG call last week to discuss possible areas of collaboration
- Julie Hardesty from the Hydra MIG is here today to talk about possible collaboration between the two groups

Julie:
- At the Hydra MIG Group last week, Jennifer discussed what subgroups exists, what we’re looking at/working on/etc.
  - There is interest in Islandora making use of Hydra options
  - Growth in Hylandora work formally and informally
- Christina + Julie also talked on possibilities for collaboration at DLF
-The Hydra MIG right now:
  - Descriptive Metadata Group
    - MODS/RDF subgroup
  - Applied Linked Data Working Group
  - Segment of a File Working Group
    - Talking about structural metadata, how to refer to portion of different file types, make calls to part of image, timeframe of audio/video file, specific XML encoding portion, etc.
- Past groups/work completed by the Hydra MIG:
  - Technical Metadata 
    - Baseline technical metadata recommendation
  - Rights Metadata
    - Object rights, sharing licensing
  - Past groups have had Islandora folks involved informally.
- Going forward...
  - Hylandora interest?
  - Potential for future technical metadata recommendations for specific formats
   - would be good to have Islandora folks involved if/when this happens
 - Periodically coming together between the 2 groups to formally stay in touch

Review of Islandora Interest Groups for possible compatibility with Hydra MIG work:
- Hydra Compatibility:
  - The group discussed merging this work into the Islandora MIG Fedora 4 Subgroup
  - Christina will put this change on next Islandora Fedora 4 Group meeting agenda, wiki for their review/discussion, especially as regards Hylandora work
  - If folks are interested in Fedora 4/Hydra Compatibility group, put name on https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/wiki/Fedora4-Metadata-Subgroup and Christina will email
- Authorities Subgroup:
  - Jennifer will convene this group, see if folks want to talk lead on work.
  - This could be good area for Hydra involvement.
  - Current scope is pretty wide: managing local authorities, authority recommendations, non-object entity questions, etc.
- Metadata Tools Subgroup:
  - Has met once, Christina will bring together another meeting
  - Interested generally in metadata tools, not Islandora-specific
  - Good general background work
- Best Practices Subgroup:
  - Duplicates the Islandora documentation group work
  - Robin from documentation group: we’d like to have more help with documentation work, they are performing outreach to the other Islandora Interest Groups to get this going.
  - Jennifer will contact the MIG Best Practices subgroup members then ask them to move over to the Documentation group: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Documentation-Interest-Group

**Use case/User Stories**
- Related to this issue: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/issues/13
- Christina will check in on that work, see where it is, report back.

**Using GitHub Issues to list metadata topics in Islandora work**
- Jennifer been following the Islandora google groups to find metadata-related issues, then asking about saving these issues as Islandora MIG GitHub Repository Issues
- How do folks feel about this?
	- Feedback: would be useful
	- This also gives issues a history to follow
	- Anyone with a GitHub account can create or respond to an issue.
	- Anything Jennifer or others finds on the Islandora google group or elsewhere dealing with metadata questions, they are invited to post as MIG GitHub Repository issue

**[Discussion: Mods to DC xsl](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/5yO9NkEBpI0)**

- recommendation: the MIG should pull together various options/permutations of the MODS to DC XSLT
- Joseph: the MODS to OAI:DC XSLT also presents this problem as it uses that same Library of Congress stylesheet
- Robin: We might also be able to make a repository like the [Forms one](https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/islandora_ingest_forms) to share the transforms

**[Replacing the MODS and the changes don't take effect unless you open the form and update](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/EX2CBR9fBDY)**

- There is a delay for changes updates, requires opening form + clicking update
- Should Jennifer open a jira ticket, issue bug report?
- Jennifer wants to see if others are encountering this
- No action items, will make issue for further feedback/gathering experiences.

**[Discussion: Helping with Documentation for releases](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PRv2Xo-sNE_sDJHUT5OvTXmNiSHnkdJgwo7VsFkIUgY/edit#gid=1041823630)**

- If interested in testing or documentation, can use above link to see who is involved
- Call for metadata folks to help

**[Discussion: Clearing the Batch Queue](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/islandora/batch$20queue$20sets/islandora/wPnVZyCpwzE/LvQwn6BoAwAJ)**

- Using 1.5 - would be nice to have more metadata in those report features for batch queue? 
- Also wanting a way to delete all of the batch queue, as well as date for when batch imported into system?
- Robin: recommends that Jennifer makes this a feature request jira ticket then go to committers call after that.

**Other business, comments:**
Next meeting: December 14, 1 PM EST

